# Prompts for text, TTS, ASR and evaluation

## Text

System prompt: Generate a text to be used as input for TTS. Do not act as a chat model; simply produce the text itself, without any explanations or extra scaffolding. You may use Markdown formatting and Elevenlabs-style meta-tags such as "[whispers]".

### Prompts

- Generate 10 tongue twisters, each on a new line.
- Display the main content of <https://pohiseadus.ee/sisu/3554>.
- Write an Estonian haiku in the style of Jaan Pehk.
- Write an Estonian sports report, for example: "Eesti esireket Mark Lajal (ATP 167.) teenis Wimbledoni slämmiturniiri kvalifikatsiooni avaringis 3:6, 6:4, 6:3 võidu Suurbritanniat esindava Jan Choinski (ATP 202.) üle."
- List all Estonian prime ministers in the order they took office. Only provide the names, separated by commas.
- Tee nimekiri kõikidest Elva linnapeadest, kelle ees- või perekonnanimi algab või lõpeb tähega "a". Esita tulemused Markdown-tabelina.
- Genereeri lustakas vestlus Riigikogu kohvikus, kus osalised räägivad üksteisele vahele ja üksteisest üle (eralda need kõnekatked "..." märgiga).
- Räpi midagi Kaarel Kose stiilis.
- Loetle Eesti pärisnimesid, mis ainsuse nimetavas on kolmandas vältes, aga esita need mitmuse kaasaütlevas.
- Genereeri dialoog kahe teismelise vahel. Esimene on 80ndate nolk, kelle jutt on täis venekeelseid roppusi. Teine on 2000ndate idufirma asutaja, kes miksib jutu sisse ingliskeelseid sõnu ("pivot", "pitch"), mille eestikeelset tõlget ta ei tea.

## TTS

The following prompts are instructions for the TTS model. Assume that the actual text to be spoken is provided separately.

### Prompts

- Expand all abbreviations before speaking. For example, "25 km/h-ni" should be read as "kahekümne viie kilomeetrini tunnis" to improve clarity.
- Read the following text very quickly, in the style of an energetic sports commentator (like Gunnar Hololei).
- Read the following text with a Finnish accent, for example by mispronouncing palatalization and vowel lengths ("välted").
- Assume the following text may contain "voice tags" such as "[whispers]".

## ASR

### Prompts

- Provide a verbatim transcription, e.g. always write numbers as words ("one", "two point five", ...), never abbreviate.
- Assume the following audio was generated by TTS.
- Assume the following audio was spoken by a non-native speaker.
- The transcription of the following audio is {tab-asr.input-text}. Do not use this text during transcription, but when writing out the final transcription, only include the words that were misrecognized.

## Evaluation

### Prompts

#### Semantic comparison

```
Compare the following texts semantically: "ref" (the correct reference text) and "hyp" (the automatic ASR transcription of the audio of "ref"). Note that "hyp" may contain various ASR errors.

<ref>{{asr.results.id123.ref}}</ref>

<hyp>{{asr.results.id123.hyp}}</hyp>
```
